Yen
will approach this question from the message on Trang's page by
interpreting it as an omen.  Excuse me, teacher, I
have a question and I hope you can help me.  On my first day
at my boyfriend's house, I was
bitten by a dog.
When I got home and talked to my parents,
they said it was a bad omen and
therefore they didn't approve of us
being together.
And some people also told me that if the two of
us got married, we wouldn't be able to live together
because of this omen.  I would like to ask you, teacher, if being
bitten by a dog is a
bad omen, as my parents say?
How should I talk to my parents so that we
can be together?
There are many kinds of
omens.  For example, if it's a sign that it's about to rain,
it might be indicated by changes in wind and the
gathering of clouds.  That's also an omen;
it
means that when something happens, it will rain, or
frogs will croak, and ponds will fill with water.
That is, when you hear frogs croaking a lot, it
signals that rain is coming, or that the
toad is the son of the sky god.  That means if a toad grinds its
teeth, it will rain.  That's why in
folklore, we say the toad is the nephew of the
sky god.  May God strike anyone who harms it
.  It is believed that the toad is a
female leopard, so the heavens must obey the
toad's words.  Therefore, whoever harms the toad
will be punished by Heaven.  That means that
from these phenomena,
events follow.  And what about
other phenomena, like
outdoor events, that are considered omens?
And what about the omen of a dog bite
?  In Buddhist scriptures,
there is a story about a cow that
killed three people, or that
in a previous life, those three people were
merchants.  And in its past life, the cow
was an old woman who owned a guesthouse.  When the
three merchants saw that the old woman was
away, they conspired to leave without paying her
lodging. When the old woman returned, she chased after them
and demanded payment, but they
denied paying and refused to return the money. The
old woman then
made a vow that she
would take revenge with her own life, and that
even if she attained enlightenment, she would still kill them
.  There.  So, in a
past life, there were three merchants, one
king, and then,
upon attaining enlightenment, they became monks.  When one becomes a monk, on
that day they take their alms bowl and go into the city to beg for food.
Just as he left the city gate, he encountered a
bull that gored him to death, and that's when he attained
Arhatship.  That means that after achieving enlightenment, one
dies.  After the cow died, the owner,
realizing what had happened, led it to a place where
it could drink water, but the cow then gored and
killed another man—a second man
.  And this third person is
the one who, upon seeing someone selling a
cow's head, starts buying one.  When you buy
that bull's head, go to a nearby riverbank to rest and
hang the bull's head up there.  So, while he was
resting underneath, the bull's head fell
down and killed him as well.
That's the parable in the Dhammapada: because of
a curse or
enmity in a previous life,
the bull killed these three people at once.
So, in this situation involving my nephew, I
got bitten by a dog.  It's just that I have a
connection with that dog;
it's not an omen that will bring misfortune upon the two of us
after we get married.
It's just that I have a special connection with that particular
dog.  So when that dog
saw me again, it bit me.  What other
omens could indicate that their marriage would bring them suffering?  It's an
omen of infidelity, a sign that the
two people will be deceived by each other, and only then will
their marriage be miserable.  That means
it must be a sign of their feelings for
each other.
If you see that your boyfriend isn't taking care of you,
you know that if you marry him, you won't be taken
care of.  If you see that your boyfriend doesn't care about you,
you know that after you get married, he won't care
about you either.  If you see your partner disrespecting
your parents, you know that if you marry them, they will disrespect
your parents as well.  So, seeing this person's
impulsive and reckless thinking,
I know this is a sign that
this person will not be someone who
thinks things through, and their actions will
not be thorough in life.  These
are omens, signs that need to be
detected in communication.  And if you see
this person hindering good deeds,
you know that this person will go on to do
evil things.  That's when you're in love,
not when a dog or cat bites you, or when
someone's pet bites you and you say
it's an omen that you
'll be unhappy if you get married.  Even within
a family, if you have a
dog and it bites you, would you
really say, "This is an omen, so I
have to leave this house"?  Right
?  Not.  This isn't about
fortune telling, but rather superstition.
It's not that I don't know how to read omens
.  Furthermore, regarding spiritual omens, there
are signs such as if, as a
parent, you
suddenly feel very anxious, you know that
something unsettling is about to happen to a loved one.  There is no peace.  For
example, if you're naturally very anxious, and then suddenly
you hear a message saying something is wrong with your child or your
husband, where does this omen come from? It
originates from your heart; you
care about them, and they care about
you. That means your hearts and feelings are connected, and that's
why you receive
these omens about each other.  But
if this child doesn't care
about the mother at all, if they don't
care about the mother at all, then
whatever happens to the child, the mother won't
have any warning.  It's because the child has already
rejected the attention of their mother and father
.  Therefore, the child does not
receive the blessings that cause their parents to worry
about them.
That's the spiritual omen.
So, spiritual connections between people, where there is
mutual care and concern, can bring about omens
and blessings. In Buddhism, relying on others
brings
immense merit.  Does
faith generate merit?
Does relying on others generate merit and blessings?
It generates merit and blessings.   She
only relies on kindness and compassion; she doesn't
lose a single penny.  It doesn't even
know that I'm helping it.  Because I
didn't bother calling him back anyway.
It didn't even know why it was able to
eliminate its karma in that way.  See?
These are what we call
spiritual omens in
this section.  If we find that our hearts are inclined towards
goodness, towards those who bring
benefit, then we know that we will have the
opportunity to transform our karmic forces.  So, if
your mind is focused on and
has a desire to learn the Dharma, then you know
that this is a sign, you know that
you have the opportunity to eliminate your negative karma
, right?  This
is a spiritual omen, both
for the living and for the
deceased.  So, is there a benefit?  That's an
omen.  So today, Yen
analyzed the different types of omens.  Then there's
another type of omen, and that's the omen found in
dreams.  If your dream
is peaceful and
you feel happy, then nothing bad will
happen.   And then there are those
dreams where
I'm scared, I sweat profusely,
I feel anxious, I have to run, and
I know that the things
I'm about to do will also
make me feel uneasy.  When you have
such dreams, you should repent, recite
scriptures, and do good deeds.  I am doing good deeds and I respectfully inform the
Buddha that I wholeheartedly follow the Buddha,
studying his teachings under the guidance of my
master and the great monks of Ba
Vang Temple.  So, if you're having
dreams that make you feel uneasy and scared, you should
know that you created negative karma in your past life
.  Now, because of my ignorance, I don't know what it
is, so I take this moment of
repentance and vow to
diligently study and listen to the Dharma from now on. With
this sincere vow, I will
eliminate that karmic obstacle.  If it is about to
happen, please help me to eliminate it, and I offer this as a donation and
meritorious deed so that the karma
may be eradicated.  That's a premonition of
bad dreams.  What about another type of
omen in dreams involving Buddha or Bodhisattvas
?  So, is it fun or not
?  This omen is actually
very difficult for Yen to explain to those who have spoken about it
.  Because they saw the image of Buddha, when
I told them not to rejoice, they asked me
why I was preventing them.  But it might not necessarily
be fun.  Because after
seeing the images of Buddha and Bodhisattvas,
they repeat and further develop these images
into teachings.  So, the teachings started, and
then I began listening to
them in my dreams, and then
it progressed to another stage: the
teachings
entered my ears.
That's very dangerous.  Then, at some point, I started to imagine
myself becoming something, some
very dangerous person.  Therefore, when we
dream and see Buddhas,
Bodhisattvas, or other revered figures, we feel
joyful.  But if I
hear people teaching me through my ears,
whispering into my head, whispering
in my ears, even in my
dreams, then I acknowledge it.
If it only happened once,
I would accept it.  If
that only happened once, it's because
you did good deeds in a previous life
.  Now, that thing in the dream
has to be related to reality.  That
means if you dream about Buddha, Bodhisattvas,
or hear some kind of teaching
in your dream, it must be related to
your real-life situation.  That's my reality.
Yen is just giving one example.  For example, if
something is going on in your family,
you might suddenly dream that the
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas are saying something to you,
something that should be about
abandoning evil and doing good, and only once
.  There is no repetition.  If it keeps happening,
when I wake up in the morning I'll tell the
child that they can't listen to what they hear in their dreams
.  I wholeheartedly study the Buddha's teachings
, learning by listening to the sounds and seeing the
words, with teachers, books, and
texts; I don't just listen.  Because
I don't know who you are, I'm
not listening.  There you go.  We deal with
those dreams because in a past
life we ​​may have done something
unwholesome, impersonated Buddha, or used Buddha's name to
deceive others.  There.   For example,
if we impersonate someone, like setting
up a place to worship Buddha, and
then use that person to do evil things and
deceive others, then when they come back, they will seek revenge, they
will also impersonate us and lead us astray.  Gradually, other people
took over my body.  Many
people experience this.  Gradually, this kind of thing
gets into people's ears, and then they
control everything, which is very painful.  That's the
omen in the dream.  When we see Buddhas and
Bodhisattvas, we must have two perspectives.
One approach is to teach yourself once and for all, in a way that
aligns with your
current situation, but also
with your prayers to the
Buddhas and Bodhisattvas.  That means we chanted scriptures,
bowed, and prayed to Buddha.  For example, if something happens at home
, I pray to Buddha.  So, in
that case, the gods will bless the child in this way and that way
.  So, if I have a dream
once and it corresponds exactly to
that event, then I'll believe it.  If that's all
good, then I'll believe it.  That
is due to my good fortune.  Then,
naturally, one might just recite Buddhist prayers or do
something vaguely without any
specific purpose.  They just naturally came and taught me all sorts of things
.  So when I heard that,
I thought I was somewhere, somewhere, and that becoming
some kind of person was very dangerous.  There.
It's simply because we
committed unwholesome deeds in our past lives.  You used
the name of Buddha to do evil deeds and
deceive others, and now you are paying
the price for your own misplaced trust.
Deceiving others by taking their trust.  That
's what the dream meant.  So, are all
the omens over yet?  To get news about
life, you need to communicate with each other
.  As for the omen of business
failure, meaning whether the
economy will decline,
the first sign is that your
calculations are inaccurate.
When my calculations start to become
inaccurate, I know that
my blessings have diminished.   You
should focus on accumulating good karma.  The calculation is
n't very accurate.  Then, if we're going down one path and then another,
we should immediately start accumulating
merit and practicing spiritual cultivation; we shouldn't
abandon that and immediately start thinking about something else.
If we consider other factors,
we'll still end up losing money
many more times in the same way.  They say if you lose this round,
try again next time.  But with many things,
the more glue you use, the more trouble it becomes.  This would be
better if it were like this.  When people
do business in one area and see it grow,
and it continues to grow, then
they have another opportunity that leads
them to do business in a different area. It's possible that
this good fortune is transferred to the other area, and they will
also experience growth.  There.  However,
if it also has another omen, it means
that you're expanding from one business to
another, but once you start, it results in
losses.  I knew right away that
my karma was manifesting itself, sending
me to do this to destroy all my
assets.  At this point, we should accumulate
merit.  I need to accumulate merit.  These
are warning signs to let us
know how we can handle the situation.
In this particular question, the mother was
too superstitious, which led to her getting entangled in negative
karma later on.  A mother's karma
is that she hinders the feelings
of others.  Therefore, I
won't be happy in my next life either.  Because
superstition prevents illness.  That's superstition.  And
how did this girl end up being born
into a family like this?  Being
held back by superstitions stems from a
past life where one also harbored superstitions that misled
others.  They seduce others for their own benefit
.  So now I have to
pay the price for what I've done.  It could also be that
in a past life, it was
someone who practiced fortune-telling and
many superstitions, or
worshipped some kind of god, meaning that there were many things, that
we had wrong views, and we told
others about them, causing
them to lose out in relationships and
love.  Therefore, I have been reborn
here as the child of this person with erroneous views,
and I must also suffer the karma of having my
love torn apart by those erroneous views, without any reason
whatsoever.  But if you did
n't ask these questions, and just followed
your mother's lead, instead of trying to understand your
lover's personality, their perspective, their feelings
, and instead
focusing on their age, omens, and how you end up
living your whole
life constantly feeling overwhelmed and miserable, wouldn't that be a
terrible thing to do?  It's really tough.
Therefore, when people fall in love and come
together, whether they want happiness or not
depends on their thinking and observation. They need to
see if the person is kind and virtuous
, if they are thoughtful, and if they possess the character and
determination to abandon evil and do
good. Only then can they determine if
this person can bring them happiness
.  Seeing how Teacher Yen answered the
question about omens...
[music]